Combining Variational Methods with Sampling
===========================================

The variational importance sampler is an hybrid algorithm which combines
sampling with variational approaches to solve intractable integrals,
particularly in the context of Bayesian inference.

### Papers

Pre-prints of three papers which use or describe the approach are:

*[Reducing the Variability in cDNA Microarray Image Processing by
Bayesian
Inference](http://ml.sheffield.ac.uk/~neil/cgi-bin/publications/bibpage.cgi?keyName=Lawrence:variability03&printAbstract=1)*
by Neil D. Lawrence, Marta Milo, Mahesan Niranjan, Penny Rashbass and
Stephan Soullier

*[Bayesian Processing of Microarray
Images](http://ml.sheffield.ac.uk/~neil/cgi-bin/publications/bibpage.cgi?keyName=Lawrence:microarray03&printAbstract=1)*
by Neil D. Lawrence, Marta Milo, Mahesan Niranjan, Penny Rashbass and
Stephan Soullier

*[Variational Inference for Visual
Tracking](http://ml.sheffield.ac.uk/~neil/cgi-bin/publications/bibpage.cgi?keyName=Vermaak:variational03&printAbstract=1)*
by ** Jaco Vermaak, Neil D. Lawrence and Patrick Pérez (PDF)

This paper gives an brief, non-exhaustive introduction to variational
inference:

*[Variational Inference
Guide](http://ml.sheffield.ac.uk/~neil/cgi-bin/publications/bibpage.cgi?keyName=lawrence:variationalguide02&printAbstract=1)*
by Neil D. Lawrence (gzipped postscript)

### Software for Microarray Analysis

We have developed software for image processing of cDNA microarrays
using the variational importance sampler. The software is automated and
provides a higher degree of consistency than other approaches. 

[MPEG video](visVideo.mpg) of Software in action on a small portion of a
slide. Purple lines indicate an initial rough grid layout. Blue ovals
indicate where the algorithm is looking for the spot. Yellow ovals
indicate where it finds it.

Release Information
-------------------

Current release is 0.31.

As well as downloading the VIS software you need to obtain the toolboxes
specified below.

**Toolbox**                                | **Version**
-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------- 
[NDLUTIL](/ndlutil/downloadFiles/vrs0p157) |  0.157
[DRAWING](/drawing/downloadFiles/vrs0p111) |  0.111
[NETLAB](/netlab/downloadFiles/vrs3p3)     |  3.3

#### Older Versions

Vs 0.3 Released 19 August 2003 - See [readme.txt](./matlab/readme.txt) for
changes.
[Vs 0.2](vrs0p2) Released 24 June 2003
[Vs 0.1](vrs0p1) Released January 2003

Page updated on Mon Oct 29 00:18:02 2007
